# UTC-Parking-Dynamics-Analysis-using-Alteryx
This capstone project attempts to provide the University campuses with an experimental predictive modeling tool, which is significantly driven by the huge vastrded historical data obtained from the target case area of the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga.
The project analysis is primarily focused on four research questions listed in the paper's objective section. Most parking utilization studies are often based on many variables, including lot type, day, year, time, and events. However, few models have been developed based on the building's proximity and lack of occupants. This project aims to analyze parking data with these two new variables and include the rest to observe their impact on Lot utilization.To do so , the analysis is conducted using machine learning algorithms, and all the algorithms are compared to check for the best model with better prediction accuracies. 
The findings of the paper revealed that the primary factors affecting utilization were the permit price followed by lot type spaces and the building proximity (blocks within 0.11 miles of a parking lot). In addition, it can be observed that out of all the machine learning algorithms, the Forest tree model reportedly gave us the above-stated accuracy. Therefore, this machine learning algorithm can be recommended to the UTC parking authority to test the parking data further with more test variables that are missing in this particular model to improve accuracy and further be deployed on their live data as a future recommendation.
